# Huffman Coding #

This project has several programs to code and decode text files using the Huffman coding. There is a MAKEFILE that compiles each of the programs in the project. The files are encoded using the `encoded` program , which generates the Huffman tree and the output encoded files, that can be decode using the `decode` and `decodebin` programs.


## Encoding #

To encode a text file the following command should be use:

```sh
$ encode <text file>
```

The program applies the Huffman coding to the input file, generating 4 output files: `preorder`, `inorder`, `code.txt`, and `code.bin`. The `preorder` and `inorder` files contain the tree traversals of the tree generated by the program, and that are necessary to decode the files afterwards. The final coding is stored in two different formats: as a text file (`code.txt`), and as a binary file (`code.bin`).

NOTE: the input files to be decoded can only have characters with an ASCII int value less or equal to 127, as characters of value greater than 127 are use to identify internal nodes in the generated trees.


## Decoding #

To decode a coded text file the following command should be use:

```sh
$ ./decode  <preorder file>  <inorder file> <coded text file>
```

To decode a coded binary file the following command should be use:

```sh
$ ./decodebin  <preorder file>  <inorder file> <coded binary file>
```

In both cases, the preorder and inorder file should be the files generated by the encoding program from the specific file that is going to be decoded.


## Printing Tree Traversals #

To print the generate tree traversals the `<read>` program should be used. It prints the code of each of the nodes on the traversal of the tree stored in the files generated by the encoding program (inorder and preorder). The program should be used as following: 

```sh
$ read <file>
```


